You can form a string in Python by
using quotes, either single quotes or
double quotes, it doesn't matter.
Here are a couple of examples.
This is using double
quotes to form the string.
And this just uses single
quotes to form a string.
Now, there is one condition here.
This string has a single quote in it.
So to use single quotes outside to form
the string would cause some confusion.
Here's one that has double quotes in it,
and
to use double quotes outside to form
a string would cause confusion.
But if you've got a single quote,
you can use double quotes
outside to form the string.
If you've got double quotes in it,
we can use single quotes
outside to form a string.
As you can see, both of those worked.
Now, what if you've got a single quote and
a double quote in the string?
Here's an example on how you can do that.
If you have both, here's, My cat's
name is Butters is what I want to write.
All right, so I use double quotes outside,
but I've gotta tell Python
that this double quote and
this double quote are not the double
quotes that mark the string.
So I want it to print an actual quote, so
I put a backslash in front of that and
a backslash in front of this one.
And that tells it that this next character
is actually to be printed as is.
So that's called escaping that character.
So the escape symbol is a backslash.
Now let's write another Python function.
I want to compute, I want to convert
Fahrenheit degrees to Celsius degrees.
So this is the function
that's going to do that.
It's called fahrenheit_to_celsius.
I want you to run it once or twice so
that you get an idea of what it does.
F-A-R-H.
So I converted 212 degrees
Fahrenheit to 100 degrees Celsius.
That should be a familiar
[COUGH] conversion.
Now let's take a look at the function and
see how that does that.
First of all,
we have a description in triple quotes.
And so if I click on this,
I'll see that our function
is documented up here.
Next, note that I have two lines
that begin with pound sign.
Anything beyond a pound sign on a given
line is not executed by Python,
it's just simply ignored.
So you can add comments to your code.
Next we have the formula.
The new temperature is 5 times
the Fahrenheit temperature
minus 32 divided 9, it's five-ninths, so
whatever number of
degrees above 32 we have.
Then we'll print the Fahrenheit
temperature, and the temperature,
is equivalent to, and
the newly computed temperature, and
then end equal, I'll explain that
in a minute, degrees Celsius.
Now, what has happened here is that my
print statement is going to go too long,
it's going to be too wide to print
out on a piece of paper if I had to.
So I've run up against the edge,
you might say, of the paper.
And I'll need to have
two print statements.
But the problem of two print statements
is that they would be on different lines.
So to eliminate creating
a new line character and
causing it to have two lines,
I'm going to say end=''.
So instead of the new line character,
I'm just going to print a blank.
Well, I'm actually going to print nothing,
because they're jammed together.
So what that effectively does
is it keeps it all on one line.
And here you can see that
it all kept on one line.
Let's run it one more time
on a familiar temperature.
32 degrees Fahrenheit is a commonly
known Celsius temperature,
that's 0 degrees Celsius.
Now it's your turn to
write such a function.
Here's an exercise, write a function
Celsius to Fahrenheit that
will convert Celsius temperatures
back to Fahrenheit degrees.
Now, the formula for that is nine-fifths
times the temperature plus 32 degrees.
Now, I'm giving you my example run,
and here are three test values,
100 degrees Celsius,
0 degrees Celsius, 50 degrees Celsius.
And here's what my program did with those.
100 degrees Celsius,
it wrote the Celsius temperature at 100 is
equivalent to 212 degrees Fahrenheit.
So you can write your function and
then use these statements to test
your function, and you can see if
you get the same thing that I get.
Now, press the continuation button
when you've got yours running, and
I'll show you mine.
Okay, here's my solution.
The Celsius to Fahrenheit temperature is,
and
I've got a documentation line here,
then do the computation,
the new temperature is nine-fifths
times the temperature plus 32 degrees.
And then I've got a print line that
prints the Celsius temperature, and
I give it as equivalent to, and
I give the new computed value.
And then I use end='' so
that I don't have a new line.
And then I can continue this
statement on the next line.